Item 16:
Recall:
1.classify corrosive poisoning? 
2.what is corrosive poisoning?
3.Lethal dose of H2SO4, HCl, HNO3
4.Synonym of H2SO4
5.What if vitriolage
6.What is Xanthoproetic reaction
7.natural source of oxalic acid
8.define carboluria
9.Name some heavy metal poisoning 
10.property of As
11.Define aldrich Moe's line
13.which group of people Expose to pb
14.what is lead line
15.What is plumbism
16.Antidote of iron poison
17.who are victim of iron poisoning
18.skin menifastation of As poisoning

Analytical :
1.Management of vitriolage
2.Punishment of vitriolage
3.Sign-symptom of H2SO4 poisoning?
4.Complication of H2SO4 poisoning
5.Cause of death of H2SO4 poisoning
6.Opinion of Pm report in corrosive poison
7.Medico-legal imp. Of oxalic acid
8.MOA of As in tissue.
9.Sign-symptoms of acute As poisoning
10.How to differentiate detween As & cholera
11.Management of As poisoning.
12.Pm findings of stomach in As poisoning
13.MOA of chelating agent in As & pb poisoning

PROBLEM BASED (ITEM 16)
*A person ingested strong corrosive acid and another person ingested strong corrosive alkali. What are the complications they might suffer from? Why?
*Immediately after vitriolage the relatives closed to the victim threw the victim into a pond. Why did they do so?
*A victim came to the emergency with injury. The doctor noticed that the injured area has no vesicles, no red line but deep ulceration. What is the probable cause of that injury?
*A patient accidentally ingested strong corrosive acid. One of his doctor relative gave him diluted lime water. Why did he give this?
*Mr. Shakrukh took 10 tablets (1000 mg each) of paracetamol. Is it fatal? What is the fatal dose of paracetamol? 
*A 40 years old hindu female from Dhaka city developed aplastic anemia due to lead poisoning. How has she got exposed to lead from her childhood till now?
*Is carbolic acid used as snake repellent? What are its other uses?
*Dobir told the court that Sogir erased his name from the will and added his own name. Which chemical substance might be used in this case? What other the other uses of it?
*A thalassemia patient repeatedly got blood transfusion. Which type of poisoning may occur? Which antidote is used here?
*Mother in law mixed OPC in daughter in law's food. But daughter in law didn't take the food. Why mother in law failed to kill her? 
*A farmer having runny nose suddenly got sick after spraying pesticide. what are the other factors that may cause harm during spraying pesticide? What are the precautions that should be taken during spraying?
*A family uses kerosene oil as fuel of lamp. Their toddler baby drank kerosene and got poisoned. Why did this happen? 
*A mother brought a child of 1 year of age in the hospital emergency with central cyanosis, hiccups, frothy discharge per nose, respiratory distress, perspiration with kerosene like smell.
*Would you give stomach wash? What might be the probable complication? What should you do to avoid that complication?
