Item17
RECALL 
 What is Addiction ?
 What is Dependency?
 What is Habituation ?
 What is Tolerance ?
 Define drug.
 Withdrawal effect.
 Body packer.
 Body stuffer.
 Glue sniffing.
 Composition of yaba.
 What specimen should be collected in case of solvent abuse?
 Which type of poison is alcohol?
 Name of alcohol beverages with percentage.
 Different forms of alcohol.
 Safety margin of alcohol in case of male and female.
 Lethal dose of ethyl and methyl alcohol.
 What is McEwan's sign?
 What do you mean by drunkenness?
 Alcohol automatism.
 What is micturition syncope?
 Henry's law.
 What is Saturday night palsy?
 What is delirium tremens?
 What is ripe seed of poppy plant called?
 What is opiate and opioid?
 What is brown sugar?
 Scientific name of datura
 Synonym of datura fruit.
 Which part of datura plant is non-poisonous?
 Active ingredient of datura.
 Which type of poison is datura medicolegally?
 Tactile hallucination in datura poisoning
 Stupefying dose and lethal dose of datura.
 Antidote of datura poisoning.
 Scientific name of cannabis.
 Which part of plant is non-poisonous?
 What do you mean by running amok?
 What is ganja psychosis? ? Which plant?
 Which drugs are present in stomach even if administered parenteraly?
 What type of poison is cocaine?
 What is speed ball?

ANALYTICAL 
 Difference between addiction and habituation .
 Withdrawal effect.
 Example of solvent abuse.
 Glue sniffing.
 Composition of yaba.
 Role of alcohol in road accident
 Different forms of alcohol.
 What is the highest concentration of alcohol that can be produced naturally? Why?
 Sign symptoms of alcohol poisoning.
 Why methyl alcohol is more hazardous than ethyl alcohol?
 Classification of opiates.
 Classification of barbiturates.
 Criteria of ideal suicidal poison.
 Why barbiturate is considered as urban ideal suicidal poison
 How datura is administered as road poison?
 Sign symptoms of datura poisoning.
 Difference between capsicum seed and datura seed.
 Tactile hallucination in datura poisoning.
 Legal management of datura poisoning.
 Will you take dying declaration in case of datura poisoning?
 Why crushed seed is used in poisoning?
 What are the different forms of cannabis?
 Classify different forms of cannabis according to concentration.
 Tactile hallucination in case of cocaine poisoning/ cocain bug?
 Sign-symptoms of cocaine poisoning.

PROBLEM BASED (ITEM 17) 
*A railway passenger was found unconscious. He was brought to hospital and the doctor found that his pupils were dilated and body was hot and red. His belongings were missing. What is the probable cause of his unconsciousness? Mention the antidote.
*Opi Murty suddenly killed a person after taking cannabis in the form of ganja. What is this phenomenon called?
*Oishorjo took full mug of bhang with hot milk. She had mild delirium and euphoria. Why did she take warm bhang instead of cold?
*Why husband brought Majoon when he went to bring back his wife from wife's parents' house in British period?
*While driving a loaded truck in highway, a drunken truck driver saw a rickshaw coming from the opposite direction and gave it a side. Then saw a private car and gave it a side, then saw a bus and gave it a side and then saw a bridge and gave it a side. And at that moment he found himself in the roadside canal with his truck. Why and how did the accident occur?
*A cocaine addicted developed mental irritation due to unavailability of the drug. Soon he also developed runny nose, cramp, drowsiness, convulsion. What do you call these symptoms? Would cigarette smokers develop same symptoms in absence of it?
