ITEM 1
KNOWLEDGE BASED
1.Define forensic medicine.
2.Define medical jurisprudence.
3.Branches of forensic medicine.
4.Father of forensic psychiatry.
5.What do you mean by clinical forensic medicine?
6.What is forensic dactylography?
7.What is forensic thanatology?
8.What is forensic ballistics?
9.Where was 1st medico legal autopsy done?
10.Define consent.
11.Types of consent with example.
12.Is consent required for medicolegal autopsy?
13.Is consent required for pathological autopsy?
14.In which cases informed written consent is required?
15.What are the exceptions of informed consent?
16.What is euthanasia?
17.Classify euthanasia.
18.What do you mean by DSD?
18.What is intersex?
19.Chromosomal pattern of Turner's syndrome.
20.Chromosomal pattern of Kleinfilter's syndrome.
21.What do you mean by true hermaphroditism?
22.What do you mean by pseudo hermaphroditism?
23.What is malingering?
24.What are the recent advances in forensic medicine?
25.Other name of forensic medicine.
26.What do you mean by forensic odontology?
27.What do you mean by forensic radiology?
Father of forensic toxicology.

ANALYTICAL 
-Difference between forensic medicine amd medical jurisprudence.
-Medicolegal importance of consent.
-Types of teeth and total number of teeth in each type.
-What is Hasse's formula?
-How to determine age of a fetus by Hass's formula?
-Objectives of medical records.
-Features of medical records.
-Reasons of malingering.
-How to diagnose malingering?
-Scope of forensic medicine.
-What do you mean by digital autopsy?
-Advantages and disadvantages of digital autopsy.
-Is euthanasia legal in Bangladesh? Do you support it? Why or why not?

PROBLEM BASED
📌If the crown heel length of the fetus is 16 cm, calculate its intrauterine age.
📌If crown heel length of the fetus is 35 cm, calculate its intrauterine age.
📌 A doctor during taking history from a patient said that he needed to measure her pulse/blood pressure. Then without saying anything the patient moved her hand towards the doctor. Which type of consent is it?
📌A rape victim came to MMC for examination. What type of consent should be taken?
📌A patient is suffering from a painful and incurable disease. He appealed to the court for euthanasia by administration of drugs. What type of euthanasia is it?
📌 Senior nurse Aishwarya appealed to the court for euthanasia of her patient Hrittik Roshan by withdrawal of his life support and court gave permission .  What type of euthanasia is it?