item 15:
Recall 
 Define poison? 
 Father of forensic toxicology? 
 Nature of poisoning:1.homicidal 2.suicidal with example? 
 Classification according to chief symptoms they produce with example? 
 What is environmental toxicology?
 What are the criminal offences by poison? (Reddy page 383) 
 Routes of administration? 
 Poison which delay putrefaction
 Poison which fastest putrefaction? 
 Poison which are destroyed by putrefaction? 
 Poison which resist putrefaction? 
 Drugs secreted into stomach? -i. Acid and ii. Base with example
 Routes of elimination of poison? 
 Action of poison? i. Local ii. Remote iii.combine
 Type of poisoning? -acute, sub acute, chronic , fulminant... 
 Para suicide? 
 What is analytical toxicological 
 Lethal dose of drug /chemical substances ? 
 Drug automatism
 Stomach wash tube: 
 Parts of stomach wash tube? 
 What is antidote? 
 What are different type of antidote example? 
 What is chelating agent and eg? 
 What are the chelating agent on As , ld, Fe2? 
 Define toxin.
 What is toxinilogy?
 Define clinical toxicology.
 Define environmental toxicology.
 What is demulcent?
 What is universal antidote?
 Composition of universal antidote.
 Name the emetics we use in poisoning
 What is sweet proposal
 Define arsenicosis.
 What is phossy jaw?
 Name some common insecticides in Bangladesh.
 OPC is absorbed in which route?
 Fatal dose of kerosene.

Analytical question 
 Factors modifying action of poison? 
 Dx of poison in dead? Procedure? 
 What are the viscera we routinely preserve for chemical analysis? 
 Why formalin is not used as preservatives in chemical analysis? 
 Why we shouldn't use Nacl solution in (chemical analysis) viscera preservation in suspected conc 
 of corrosive acid poisoning? (H2SO4 and HNO3) ? 
 Why stomach is preserved in separate container in chemical analysis? 
 When the viscera are sent for chemical analysis? 
 What type of container ideal for viscera preservation in chemical analysis? 
 How saturated solution of NaCl is made/prepared? 
 Opinion is case of poison case? 
 Causes of failure to detect poison?
 Causes of false positive results? 
 Duties of a medical practitioner in case of suspected poisoning ? 
 Legal duties of a doctor in case of a suspected poisoning? 
 Medical management of a suspected poison case? 
 Procedure of stomach wash ? 
 Contradiction of stomach wash? 
 What are the precautions be taken in case of relative contradiction of stomach wash? 
 Within what time stomach wash should be given (time of ingestion) in poison case? 
 Why stomach wash is contradicted in strong corrosive acids(H3PO4, HNO3) 
 What would be the ideal preservative in case of suspected alcohol poisoning?
 What do you mean by poisonous?
 What do you mean by poisoning?
 Can poison be introduced through intra thecal route? If yes, from where?
 What are the samples collected for preservation and lab investigation in living subjects in poisoning?
 Mention eye changes in at least 2 types of poisoning.
 Composition of universal antidote.
 Name the emetics we use in poisoning.
 Where physical antidote is not useful?
 Which one is more dangerous? Corrosive acud or corrosive alkali? Why?
 Color of pure and commercial sulphuric acid.
 Why commercial sulphuric acid is made brown?
 Why abdomen is distended in sulphuric acid poisoning?
 Why steroid is given in sulphuric acid poisoning?
 What is the appearance of necrotic area in sulphuric acid poisoning?
 Why signs of corrosion is not found in esophagus?
 Enumerate complications of vitriolage.
 What are the uses of nitric acid?
 What is the most important diagnostic feature of carbolic acis poisoning?
 What are the uses of arsenic?
 Is metallic or black arsenic poisonous? Why or why not?
 What is the other name of arsenius oxide?
 What are the physical forms of arsenius oxide?
 Does white arsenic float on water?
 Which two poisons are absorbed in all routes?
 Forms of arsenic absorbed through oral, dermal and inhalation routes.
 What is the particular target of arsenic?
 What is the dose of arsenic in case of fulminant poisoning?
 What is the cause of death in acute arsenic poisoning?
 What is the cause of death in chronic arsenic poisoning?
 What is the chemical name of paracetamol?
 Fatal dose of paracetamol.
 Antidote of paracetamol poisoning.
 Cause of death in paracetamol poisoning.
 Nane some common insecticides in Bangladesh.
 OPC is absorbed in which route?
 Fatal dose of kerosene.
 Sign symptoms of acute kerosene poisoning.
 Why stomach wash is contraindicated in kerosene poisoning?
 Deliriant poisons primarily affect which part of the nervous system?
 Which Deliriant poison is often used in traditional medicine but can cause severe toxicity?
 Which method is used to confirm datura poisoning?
 What type of drug is physostigmine?
 Antidote for acute opium poisoning.
 Alcohol is produced by fermentation of which compound?
 Along with fermentation, which process is necessary to produce absolute alcohol?
 What do you mean by barbiturate blister?
 Common sites of barbiturate blister.

PROBLEM BASED ( ITEM 15 )
*A patient took poison 3 hours before admitting to the hospital. Will you give stomach wash?
*A patient was admitted to MMCH with suspected poisoning. You don't know the time of ingestion of the poison. Will you give stomach wash?
*Two patients came to the emergency after taking poison. One of them took the poison sublingually and another one by I/V route. Who will develop the sign symptoms rapidly?
*Four members of a family had the same dish in dinner. One member got enteritis. Is this dish poisonous?
*Two people took OPC at the same time. One of them took it in empty stomach and another one in full stomach. Who will get poisoned faster?
*One patient survived after OPC poisoning. What will be your advice?
*A dead body was brought in the morgue of suspected sulphuric acid poisoning. Saturated NaCl was used as preservative to preserve the viscera. Is it right? Why or why not?
*A dead body of suspected alcohol poisoning was brought in the morgue. Ethyl alcohol was used as preservative fir viscera preservation. Is it right ? Why or why not?
*A patient of suspected poisoning case came to the hospital. You don't know the exact poison. Which antidote will you use? Composition of it with function.
*Bhawal Raja's relatives wanted to kill him by chronic poisoning. Which poison would they choose? Why?
*A person wants to commit to suicide in Mymensingh Sadar. Which poison will he choose? Why?? 