ITEM 4
RECALL
Define forensic thanatology. 
Define death. 
Bishop's tripod of life.
Clinical  criteria of cessation of respiration.
Clinical criteria of cessation of nervous system.
Clinical criteria of cessation of circulation.
Define apparent death.
What is death trance?
What do you mean by suspended animation?
Types of apparent death.
Cause of apparent death.
Medico-legal classification of death. 
Clinical classification of death. 
Define somatic death.
Define Molecular death.  
Time of cellular death of different organs.
Types of organ transplantation.
What do you mean by xenograft?
Mode of death with types.
Manner of death with types.
In which cases we don't mention manner of death in post mortem report? 
Define brain death.
Types of brain death. 
Function of brainstem.
What is persistent vegetative state?
What is beating heart donor?
Define Syncope. 
Procedure of declaring clinical death of a person? 
Diagnostic criteria of brain death. 
Diagnostic criteria of brainstem death.
What is algor mortis?
Define rigor mortis. 
What is embalming? 
Define postmortem artefact .
What are the post mortem changes?
What's heat stiffening?
What is cold stiffening?
What is post mortem hypostasis?
What is cadaveric spasm?
What is tache noir?
What is Kevorkian Sign? 
Late changes of death.
What is putrefaction?
What is adipocere formation?
What is mummification?

ANALYTICAL 
Medico legal importance of somatic death.
Medico legal importance of molecular death.
Difference between cortical brain death & brain stem death. 
Other name of death trance and its example. 
How would you confirm a case of apparent death?
Role of a doctor after diagnosis of apparent death.
Among the cases of apparent death, in which case the duration of apparent death is highest?
Medico legal importance of death trance. 
Changes in the eye after death 
How to estimate Post mortem interval?
Mechanism of postmortem hypostasis.  
What is secondary hypostasis.
Medico legal importance of PM hypostasis. 
Site of post mortem lividity 
Cadeveric spasm belongs to which kind of postmortem change?
Difference between postmortem staining and bruise. 
Difference between hypostasis and congestion?
Nysten's rule.
Medico legal importance of rigor mortis 
Differential diagnosis of rigor mortis.
Medico legal importance of cadaveric spasm 
Mechanism of putrefaction.
Medico legal importance of putrefaction 
Causes of delayed putrefaction. 
Causes of early putrefaction. 
Medico legal importance of mummification.  
Gases produced during putrefaction. 
Deference between rigor mortis & cadaveric spasm.

PROBLEM BASED 
*Suppose you are working in a hospital. a patient came and now you have to decide whether the patient is alive or not. How Will you diagnosis death of a person clinically? 
* In a dead body, muscles became stiff and rigid immediately after death. Is it rigor mortis or cadaveric spasm? Differentiate between rigor mortis and cadaveric spasm? 
*A patient was brought to EMO with syncope and coma.
How will you diagnose if he is dead or not?
*A patient died due to OPC poisoning at EMO, MMCH. How will you declare his/her death and how will you make sure he was dead? 
*Mr.karim was admitted into hospital due to trauma to the brain.He is now in a deep coma,has lost neurological cognitive function but respiration and circulation is running.
* Tell me the type of brain death of the patient. 
* Mr.karim is in which state? 
* Tell me some features of this state?
Rigor mortis is present in upper limb but not in lower limb. What is the time since death?
*Rigor mortis is present in both upper and lower limb. What is the time since death?
*Rigor mortis is present in lower limb but not in upper limb. What is the time since death?