 ITEM 12
RECALL:
 Define forensic psychiatry.
 What is psychiatry?
 What is aphasia?
 What is cognition?
 Define delusion.
 Define hallucination.
 What is illusion? Example of illusion.
 What is impulse?
 What is sympathy and empathy?
 What is obsession?
 What is compulsion?
 What is phobia?
 What is lucid interval?
 What do you mean by insight?
 What is hysteria?
 What do you mean by toxic psychosis?
ANALYTICAL:
 Classification of delusion. Meaning of each type with example.
 Types of hallucination with example.
 Types of impulse with example.
 What do you mean by mental illness or unsoundness of mind or insanity?
 Medicolegal or ethical issues of forensic psychiatry.
 Causes of abnormal mental status.
 Difference between psychosis and neurosis.
 Medicolegal importance of delusion.
 Difference between lucid interval in head injury and psychiatry.
 Medicolegal importance of lucid interval.
 What do you mean by psychopath? Will a psychopath be punished for his criminal act?
 Diagnostic criteria of insanity.
 Difference between true insane and false insane.
 Causes of feigned insanity.
 Opinion and certificate in case of true insane and normal person.
 Civil and criminal responsibilities of normal and insane person.
 McNaughten's rule
 PROBLEM BASED (ITEM 12)
*Amir Khan believes that Tina is in love with him. But Tina herself and other friends of amir khan said that it's just friendship. Amir khan doesn't believe it even after clarification.bWhat type of mental illness is this? What are the other subtypes of it?
*A cocaine addicted person suddenly feels that something like insects are crawling under his arm. What is this called? What type of mental illness is this?
*Once a lonely pedestrian was walking at dark night. Suddenly he saw a ghost by the side of the street. But actually it was a banana tree. What type of psychological problem did the person face? 
*A celebrity wandering in a supershop suddenly saw a cheap and attractive showpiece. She couldn't resist herself from stealing it. Mention the psychological status of that celebrity. Is it major or minor psychiatric illness?
*After commiting a murder, a person suddenly acts like an insane. What is his motive? Under which rule he wants to be recognized innocent? How will you test him regarding insanity? 
*Rejwan was so afraid of exam that he didn't attend the exam the next day. What is his psychological status? Is it major or minor psychiatric illness?
*An insane person commited murder but the plaintiff complains that the insane person had insight during commiting the crime. If it is proved, would it be considered as crime? Why or why not?
*A person was proven innocent according to McNaughten's rule. Why McNaughten's rule is applicable only in major psychiatric illness?
