Item 11

RECALL
Define impotency.
Define sterility (infertility).
What is fridgidity?
What is timidity?
What is quoad hoc?
What is vaginismus?
What is artificial insemination?
What do you mean by test tube baby?
Define pregnancy.
Average duration of pregnancy.
What is quickening? When does it appear first?
What is Chadwick's sign?
Hagar's sign.
Goodell's sign.
Braxton Hicks sign.
What do you mean by phantom pregnancy?
What is posthumous child?
What is superfecundation?
What is superfetation?
What is bustard child?
Define affiliation case.
Define supposititious child/ fictitious child.
Define delivery.
Define abortion.
Classification of abortion.
What is precipitate labour?
Duration of precipitate labour.
Normal duration of labour in primi and multiparous women.

ANALYTICAL
Medicolegal importance of impotency/sterility.
Causes of impotency in case of male and female.
Causes of sterility in case of male and female.
Methods of sterilization.
Result of castration before and after puberty.
What are the diferent types of artificial insemination?
What are the diferent types of test tube baby? Which one is allowed in Bangladesh?
What do you mean by surrogate mother? Is it legal in Bangladesh?
Consent in case of abortion.
Consent in case of artificial insemination or test tube baby.
What are the problems that may arise in case of artificial insemination?
Medico legal problems in case of surrogacy.
Medicolegal importance of pregnancy.
Diagnosis of pregnancy.
Procedure of auscultation of fetal heart sound.
Radiological feature of death fetus.
Fundal height of the uterus along the age of pregnancy.
Differential diagnosis of pregnancy.
Locations of ectopic pregnancy.
Pathophysiology of air embolism.
Pathophysiology of amniotic fluid embolism.
Medicolegal importance of affiliation case.
What are the tools to solve an affiliation test?
Medicolegal importance of supposititious child.
Medicolegal importance of delivery.
Confirmatory signs of recent delivery.
Different types of lochial discharge with duration.
How can you differentiant a parous and nulliparous women by autopsy?
Features of parous women.
Classification of abortion.
Indications of therapeutic abortion.
Who can give consent in abortion?
Who can perform abortion?
Complications of criminal abortion.
Role of a doctor in case of criminal abortion.
Methods of therapeutic abortion.
Methods of criminal abortion.
Medicolegal importance of precipitate labour.
Complications of precipitate labour.
Difference between monozygotic/identical twin and superfecundation.
How to identify monozygotic twin?
How to identify children born by superfecundation?

PROBLEM BASED (ITEM 11)
*In an European country, a young male wanted to donate his sperm for artificial insemination. But he didn't take consent from his wife and he has no child of his own. Will he be allowed to be a donor? Why or why not?
*A couple wanted to have test tube baby in Bangladesh. Which type is allowed in our legal system and why? 
*A couple wanted to get a child by surrogacy. Will that couple get permission from our court? Explain it.
*A pre menopausal woman who never conceived before suddenly complains intermittent lower abdominal pain, amenorrhea, morning sickness, quickening. But ultrasonography reveals no fetus. What is this condition called? What are the differential diagnosis of this condition?
*HCG test highly positive but USG reveals no fetus. What may be the condition?
*An unknown female dead body came to morgue with gravid uterus. How to detect intrauterine age of the fetus?
*In auscultation fetal heart sound could not be found. But USG reveals that the fetus is alive. Why fetal sound could not be heard?
*Gynecologist places the stethoscope over abdomen of a pregnant mother and heard two different heart sounds. How will she differente between heart sound of the mother and the fetus?
*An unknown female body was brought in the morgue. How will you differentiate if she is nulliparous or multiparous?
*Immediately after delivery the mother killed the fetus by head injury and told the relatives that she was unaware about the delivery. She got pregnant by rape. In what natural circumstances in might happen?
*After full term pregnancy, primi pregnant woman suddenly got bowel urge. Then her child fell into the pan. What is this condition? And why it happens?
*A pregnant woman came to the hospital for abortion. There were indications of therapeutic abortion. But her in-law parents didn't give consent and her husband also wanted to keep the child. Can the doctor perform abortion in this case?
*A pregnant woman came to the hospital with per vaginal bleeding. On taking history, the doctor realised that the mother had attempted to commit criminal abortion. What wiould be the management role of doctor?
