Item 18
Recall
 Cause of cherry red coloration.
 Circumstances of poisoning of CO.
 Hydrocyanic acid
 Example of organic irritant poison.
 What do you mean by venomous?
 What do you mean by poisonous?
 Differentiate between poisonous and non-poisonous snake.
 Can we perform chemical analysis in case of snake bite? Why or why not?
 Management of snake bite.
 Which type of antidote is anti-snake venom?
 How to prepare anti-snake venom?
 Which type of anti venom is better and why?
 Medicolegal importance of yellow oleander poisoning.

Analytical
 Classification of asphyxiants with one example.
 Feature of carbon monoxide.
 Color of skin in carbon monoxide poisoning.? Other causes of cherry red coloration of skin.
 Classification of war gas.
 Classification of poisonous snakes.? Types of toxin produced by different types of snakes.
 Composition of snake venom.
 Function of enzymes and functions of toxins.
 Historical example of snakebite regarding suicide and homicide.
 Can snake hear?
 What is ophi-toxemia?
 Which type of anti venom is used in our country?
 Define food poisoning.
 What are organisms causing food poisoning?
 Name of toxin of pufferfish.
 Sign symptoms of pufferfish poisoning.
 What are the active principles of yellow oleander poisoning?

PROBLEM BASED (ITEM 18)
*In defensive bunker near Kiev, Ukraine soldiers suddenly felt intense irritation, lacrimation, respiratory distress, skin blister, nausea, vomiting after Russian artillery shell fire. What may be the cause?
*Aman saw a Russell's viper bit a farmer on road side field. He took the farmer to the nearest hospital. What type of anti venom the doctor should choose?
*After attending a marriage ceremony, some of the members of bridal group developed loose watery stool. How will you differentiate it from acute arsenic poisoning?
*After eating an expensive potka fish dish, one customer was poisoned and died. What is the mode of death?
*One labour got down to the manhole for cleaning. But he suddenly became unconscious. Another garments worker suddenly became unconscious without burn injury in a garments factory room filled with dark black smoke. What are the probable causes of unconsciousness in these two cases? Mention any one of its pathophysiology.
