ITEM 6
RECALL
Define autopsy .
What are the types of autopsy?
Which branch of forensic medicine deals with autopsy?
Bangladesh form no. of Postmortem report.
What are the parts of PM report?
Define virtual autopsy .
Define clinical autopsy .
Objective of autopsy .
Define obscure autopsy .
Define negative autopsy .
What is second autopsy ?
What is psychological autopsy?
Medicolegal importance of second autopsy. 
What are the incisions of autopsy?
Describe head incisions in autopsy.
Which type of incision is best for trunk?
What the methods of removal of organs in autopsy?
For which purpose do we preserve specimen?
Enumerate the commonly preserved viscera.
What are the preservatives used in viscera preservation?
Which preservative is used in histopathology?
In which cases manner of death is not mentioned in PM report?
Define exhumation.
In case of exhumation, who must give authorization?
What is dead birth?
What is still birth?
What is live birth?
Define infanticide.
What is fetecide?
Medicolegal importance of infanticide.
What is caput succedaneum?
What is cephal hematoma?
Forms of fetus in case of dead birth.
Difference between inspired and uninspired lung.

ANALYTICAL 
Indication of autopsy.
Parts of PM report.
Pre requisites of autopsy.
Criteria of modern mortuary.
Who are the autorized persons to perform medicolegal autopsy?
When a doctor can refuse to perform autopsy?
How can we diagnosis pneumothorax by autopsy?
Why umbilicus is avoided during incision?
In case of hanging which type of incision is preferred?
Why is infanticide law present in many countries?
Is infanticide law applicable in Bangladesh?
Mention the methods of infanticide.
Why does mother get less punishment for killing of her child below 1 year?
Is live birth considered as natural? Why or why not?
Is still birth considered as natural? Why or why not?
Why saturated NaCl is commonly usedas preservative?
How saturated NaCl is prepared?
Why formaldehyde is not used as preservative for chemical analysis?
Why formaldehyde is used for preservation of viscera in histopathological examination?
Which preservative is used in case of suspected alcohol poisoning?
Which preservative is used in case of suspected sulfuric acid poisoning?
How many containers are used for viscera preservation?
Why stomach is kept is separate container?
Which type of container is ideal for viscera preservation and why?
Why 1/3rd of the container is kept empty during viscera preservation?
Causes of failure to detect poison.
Causes of false positive of poisoning.

PROBLEM BASED 
*An infant's dead body is brought for autopsy. radiological examination reveals spalding's sign. Which type of birth does it indicate? 
*The first autopsy report is being challenged and so authority decides of digging out the buried body.which process is mentioned above? Describe the role of magistrate in that process? 
*An unknown dead body is bought for postmortem examination. What are the pre requisites of the mentioned body for autopsy ?
*An infant is born after 28 weeks of pregnancy but didn't showed any signs of life after complete birth and mother didn't notice any delivery pain. Post mortem findings showed dark red colored lungs. What is the type of death?
*A dead body of 27 year old male is brought for autopsy examination. After performing autopsy and chemical and histopathological examination, the cause of death can’t be determined. What will be the opinion in this case?
*Mr Rahman was buried 2 years ago after sudden death. Recent rumors and a new witness testimony have raised that he may have been murdered. Now the court ordered for digging out of the buried body to determine the true cause of death. What is this procedure called? What type of inquest report is necessary in this case?
*Step mother killed an infant by throttling. Which method of infanticide is this?