ITEM 8
RECALL
Define anoxia
Type of anoxia with anoxia
Define asphyxia 
What do you mean by mechanical asphyxia?
What do you mean by violent asphyxial death?
What is the meaning of asphyxia 
Classify asphyxia
Enumerate the violent asphyxial deaths
Give the cardinal signs/stigmata of asphyxia
What are the causes of cardinal signs of asphyxia 
What is petechial hemorrhage?
What is Tardieu's spot? 
In autopsy how will you demonstrate visceral congestion?
Define hanging 
What are the commonly used ligature in hanging? 
Classify hanging.
Minimum weight required for hanging in jugular vein.
Minimum weight required for hanging in carotid artery .
Minimum weight required for hanging in vertebral artery.
Classify hanging on the basis of degree of suspension 
Types of knot .
What is typical hanging?
Which type of hanging is more common?
How is the ligature mark in typical hanging 
Give the causes of death in hanging
Complications of hanging.
Why partial hanging is more suicidal Medicolegally?
Give examples of homicidal hanging.
Give an example of accidental hanging
Which rope is used in judicial hanging?
What do you mean by postmortem suspension?
Consequence of failure to commit suicide.
What are the atypical ligature mark in hanging?
Give the postmortem findings of hanging 
Give the distribution of postmortem staining in hanging 
Give the finding of subcutaneous tissue in hanging.
What do you mean by sexual asphyxia?
Opinion of hanging.
What is pseudo ligature mark in hanging?
Detine strangulation 
Classify strangulation 
Enumerate the postmortem findings of strangulation 
How is the ligature mark in strangulation? 
Give the most important internal finding in strangulation
Enumerate the causes of death in strangulation 
Differentiate between hanging & strangulation
Definition of ligature strangulation.
Define throttling 
Define choking 
What is smothering?
What is traumatic asphyxia?
Define mugging.
Postmortem finding of ligature strangulation.
Postmortem finding of manual strangulation.
What are the different wounds in strangulation.
What do you mean by café coronary?
Mechanism of cafe coronary. 
What is suffocation.
Example of suffocation.
Define drowning 
Classify drowning
Describe the pathophysiology of fresh water drowning
Write down the pathophysiology of sea water drowning
Differentiate between lung findings in fresh water & salt water drowning
What is the cause of death in fresh water drowning? 
What is the cause of death in salt water drowning? 
Why dry drowning is difficult to identify?
What is emphysema aquosum?
What is washerwoman's hand.
Mechanism of asphyxia in dry drowning.
Explain secondary drowning 
Explain immersion syndrome
Enumerate the postmortem findings of drowning

Give the characteristics of froth in drowning
What is the lung findings in drowning
Medicolegal importance of diatom.
Opinion in case of drowning.

ANALYTICAL 
Explain the vicious cycle of asphyxia
Give the mechanism of petechial hemoriltage/tardieu's spot formation
What is the main difference between petechial hemorrhage & Tardieu's spot?
In complete hanging, the constricting force is what?
In partial hanging, the constricting force is what? 
Where asphyxial signs are more prominent? Which hanging is more common. complete or partial? What is the cause of death in partial hanging? 
How cerebral anemia is produced in Hanging? 
Give the mechanism of formation of froth How can you differentiate poisoning froth from drowning froth? 
Is water found in lungs in immersion syndrome?
Why sexual asphyxia is not hanging?
Is water found in lungs in dry drowning?

PROBLEM BASED 
* A person drowned in a cold bath, but there was no water in the lungs. How will you explain the situation as a medicolegal expert? 
* A person dies 48 hours after drowning in spite of being rescued. How did this happen? 
* A person's body was recovered in a pond. On chemical analysis, diatom was found in stomach but not in liver, kidney and bone marrow. How can antemortem and postmortem drowning be differentiated from this? 
* A 16 year old teenage girl having severe depressive illness attempts to commit suicide by the process of hanging using a rope like ligature material. After rescue, she is admitted in hospital ICU. What type of complications may be suffered by the teenage girl? 
* A two years boy was killed by assailant by pressing hand over neck. What is your most likely diagnosis? What post mortem findings may you get during autopsy? 
* A six year old girl has been killed by muscreants by pressing pillow and hand over mouth and nostril. What is your most likely diagnosis? What post mortem findings may you get during autopsy? 
* Rana plaza collapsed in 2013. How did most of the people die there? 
* Mr. X was heavily drunk. In spite of this, he went to a cafe and ordered a pizza. While eating the pizza suddenly he started coughing violently and within a minute he was dead. What is the phenomenon called?
* A child's body was found from a pond. There was a fine, white, leathery, tenacious froth in mouth and nostrils. In which other cases can froth be seen? What is the difference between froth of drowning and froth due to other causes? 
* A person committed suicide by drowning. How will we identify whether it was a fresh water drowning or salt water drowning by autopsy?